    IP address
 IP stands for Internet protocol, IP address is unique identifying number assigned 
 to every device connected to the internet. it is a numeric lable assigned to devices
 that use the internet to communicate.
  it have two distinct versions that is internet protocol version 4 and internet protocol version 6,
 called as IPv4 and IPv6. the ip address maybe private,public,static and dynamic ip address
 every device with a internet connection has an IP address whether it's a computer,laptop,
 IoT device or even toys

    port
  Port is a number assigned to uniquely identify a cdonnecdtin endpoint and t direct data to specific
  service.
  A port is logical construct that idetifies a specific process or a type of network service.
  A port at the software level is identified a specific transport protocol and address combination
  by the port number assigned to it.
  The most common transport protocols that use port numbers areTCP (Transmission Control Protocol)
  and the UDP (User Datagram Protocol) the port numbers are 16-bit
  unsigned numbers.

    HTTP methods
  HTTP methods are used to indicate the action and API client would like to perform on a given resource.
  Each HTTP method maps to a specific operation like creating, reading, updating or deleting a resource.
  HTTP request method
   1. get - retriving a single or multiple resources
   2. post - creating a new resource
   3. patch - updating an existing resource
   4. put - updating or creating new resource
   5. delete - destroying a resource

     MAC address
   MAC address which stands for Media Access Control Address is a physical address that works at the 
  Data link layer.
  MAC Address are unique 48-bit hardware numbers of a computer that are embedded into a network card.
  MAC Address is a 12-digit hexadeciaml number which is mostly represented by Colon-Hexadeciaml notation.
  The first 6 digits of the MAC Address identify the manufacturer called the OUI(organizational unique
  identifier).
  The rightmost six digits represent Network Interface Controller
   Types of MAC Address
    1.Unicast
    2.Multicast
    3.Broadcast
